On a December afternoon in Chicago during the middle of World War two scientists cracked open the nucleus at the center of the uranium Adam and turned in new clear Mass into energy over and over again.
They did this by creating for the first time a chain reaction inside a new engineering Marvel the nuclear reactor since then the ability to mine great amount of energy from uranium nuclei has led some to bill nuclear power has a plentiful utopian source of electricity.
A modern nuclear reactor generate enough electricity from one kilogram of fuel to power and average American household for nearly 34 years, but rather than dominate the global electricity Market nuclear power has declined from an all time high as 18% in 1996 to 11% today.
And it's expected to drop further in the coming decades. What happens to the great promise of this technology. It turns out nuclear power faces of many hurdles, including High construction costs and public opposition and Behind these problems Elias series of unique engineering challenges nuclear power relies on the vision of uranium nuclei and a control chain reaction that produces this splitting in many more nuclei.
The atomic nucleus is densely packed with protons and neutrons Bound by a powerful new clear Force most uranium Adams have a total of 238 protons and neutrons, but roughly one in every 140 lacks 3 neutrons and this lighter isotope is less tightly bound.
Compared to it's more abundant cousin a strike by a neutron easily split the you 235 nuclei until later radioactive elements called Vision products in addition to 223 neutrons gamma rays and a few neutrinos during fission some new clear Mass transforms into energy a fraction of the new found energy powers the fast moving neutrons and if some of them straight uranium nuclei Vision results in a second larger generation of neutrons, if this second generation of neutrons strike more uranium nuclei more Vision result in an even larger third generation and so on but inside a nuclear reactor this spiraling chain reaction is teamed using control rods made of elements that capture excess neutrons and keep their number in check.
With the control Chain Reaction, our reactor drawers Powers steadily and Stapley for years.
The neutron LED chain reaction is a potent process driving nuclear power, but there's a cat that can result in unique demands on the production of its fuel. It turns out most of the neutrons admitted from Vision have too much kinetic energy to be captured by uranium nuclei decision rate is too low and the Chain Reaction Fizzles out the first nuclear reactor built in Chicago used graphite as a moderator to scatter and slow down neutrons just enough to increase their capture. Bye uranium and raise the rate of fishing modern reactors commonly used purified water has a moderator, but the scattered neutrons are still a little too fast.
To compensate and keep up the Chain Reaction.
The concentration of you 2:35 is in Rich 2427 times if natural lavonda today in Richmond is off and done by passing a gaseous uranium compound through Sentra fusions two separate lighter you 235 from heavier you 2:38, but the same process can be continued to highly and Rich you 235 up to 130 times. It's Natural Abundance and create an explosive chain reaction in a bomb.
Methods like centrifuge processing must be carefully regulated to limit the spread of all grade fuel.
Remember only a fraction of the released Vision energy goes into speeding up neutrons. Most of the nuclear power goes into the kinetic energy of the vision products.
Those are captured inside the reactor as heat by a coolant usually purified water. This heat is eventually used to drive an electric turbine generator by steam just outside the reactor water flows critical not only to create electricity, but also to guard against the most dreaded type of reactor accident the Meltdown if water flow stops because of pipe carrying it breaks or the pumps that push it fail that uranium heats up very quickly and melt during the nuclear meltdown radioactive Vapors Escape into the reactor and if they're reactor fails to hold them a steel and concrete containment building is the last line of defense.
What is the radioactive gas pressure is too high containment fails and the gas has escaped into the are spreading as far and wide as the wind Globes?
the radioactive Vision products in these Vapors eventually DK into stable elements
Well some decay in a few seconds others take hundreds of thousands of years. The greatest challenge for a nuclear reactor is to safely containing these products and keep them from harming humans or the environment.
containment doesn't stopped mattering once the fuel is used up in fact it becomes an even greater storage problem every one to two years some spent fuel is removed from reactors and stored in pools of water that cool the waist and block it's radioactive emissions Dr radiated fuel is a mix of uranium that failed to fission Vision products and plutonium a radioactive material not found in nature this mix must be isolated from the environment until it has all safely decade many countries proposed deep times storage in tunnels drilled far underground but none have been built and there's great uncertainty about their long-term security how can a nation that has existed for only a few hundred years planted guard plutonium through with radioactive half-life of 24000 years today many nuclear power plants it on their waist instead storing them in
Italy on site apart from radioactivity.
There's an even greater danger with spent fuel plutonium consisting a chain reaction and can be mind from the waist to make bombs storing spent fuel is us not only a safety risk for the environment, but also a security risk for Nations.
Who should be the Watchmen to Garden?
Visionary scientists from the early years of the new clear age pioneered how to reliably tap the tremendous amount of energy inside and Adam
as an explosive bomb and as a controlled power source with Incredible potential but there's successor have learned humbling insights about the Technologies not so utopian industrial limits my name is subatomic realm make for complex expensive and risky engineering. 